Welcome back in in this lesson we're going to look at a document query selector.
So this is another way and another really common way in order to specify and select elements.
Basically it allows you to select a limit that matches a specified selector.
So let's put up so variable E L.
And we're going to do document because again belongs in that document object and this time we're going
to use the method queery selector.
So basically what this will do is this will return back that first element that matches that selection
and it follows CSSA format.
So if we want to return back message we need to include that hash.
So the same way that you would write your CSSA styling.
You can do it the same way in query selector.
So let's go back.
Refresh the page.
Type in E-L and we're able to grab a message.
So you're probably wondering well what happens because I've got a number of them with the class of output.
So what's going to happen in this instance.
So let me show you and we're going to do output.
So following C-s us again for classes we do that Daut.
So refreshing it and E-L and we see that we're grabbing the first element within each team L that actually
returns back and matches our selection process.
So this is another really useful way of making your selection within your elements.
So also let's say for instance that we're looking for output but we want so I'm going to create a parent
here and I'm going to give it a div of pick me so that we can see that and I'm going to drop an element
inside of there.
So now what we can do and we notice that let's do some CSSA here.
So if we wanted to highlight that when we came to pick me and then we can do output.
And this is another really great way to practice it is that you can use CSSA.
So if you can select it within CSSA You can also select it within Javascript.
So let's go back and refresh it.
So we see that this selection worked.
And if this selection worked in CSSA we know that we can grab that same element here within the output.
So let's refresh it again.
So go to the page save it and go back to the page and this time let's see what we can return back for
L.
So we are able to select that particular element just simply by using the same values that we use within
our query selector so also really useful if you've got inputs.
We've got a type of input and we've got let's set up a bunch of text inputs and give it a name of first
and then we'll do some more text inputs.
And this one can have a name of last so we know that when we use CCS we can find out we can use input
and we can use the square brackets and we can be more specific with some of the attributes.
So we want to pick out the one that has a name of last and this one.
Let's do a background color so we'll do background color and we'll make it red.
So it really stands out.
So let's go back.
Refreshed the page.
So we see that we've got that one in red.
So basically what this means is that we can do the same thing here within the query selector so I can
literally copy my US I can go out and I can refresh it and now it is not input that we're selecting.
So this is really useful.
So what I want you to do now is to go ahead and open up your h tim l editor and create some inputs just
like I did over here and grab it via the input and then next challenge yourself do some CSA us highlight
one of the elements and then copy that and place it with the Querrey selector and output that content
and then once you've made your selection input a value if you're selecting within the input fields and
put a value of it worked sauce also you how to do that so well and we know this as an input so we can
set a value for it.
So we can write.
It worked.
Go back and refresh the page.
And there we go.
So now we see that we're actually able to type in and make that selection using query selector.
So go ahead try it for yourself.
And in the next lesson it'll look at query selector.
All so that's going to be the alternative to query selector.
If we've got a number of elements that we want to return back.
So it's coming up.